There's part of it that's good. I can go ahead with
the rest of it. Another reason I decided to go to
Texas A&M was because of the fact that it was a less
expensive school than most of the others. And I
especially liked the idea of military training.
And I had been assured by some of my friends who were
already at A&M that I could probably get a
part-time job.
Now, that's it. But after I came to Texas A&M, I had
some difficulty because there were more students
wanting jobs than they had jobs for. And I had some
difficulty, but I did real well in my freshman year
and not so well in my sophomore year because I did
spend quite a bit of time at an odd time job. And I
didn't have time to study. But I made all that work
up the next summer. and finished my degree on time
without any difficulty.
And I retained my commission in the Reserve Corps
until World War II started. And I mobilized with
the 36th Division in November 1940.
Because I went to summer camp during the
summertime, you see, and did my regular
schoolwork. uh in fall and spring and attended
some summer schools. I for instance got my
master's degree at Texas A&M in 1928 by going to
school while I was teaching at Hearn and coming
down here every Saturday for conferences with the
head of my department and chairman of my committee
and I did all my dissertation work in between
times. So when I came back and At the beginning of
the second summer, I had completed all the
research and done some of the typing. So I finished
the typing in June and had approved by the
committee and completed the degree in August.
And I took some special courses at North Texas
State. It was called Teacher College then, I
believe. I did this because I was teaching some
special work in the Temple Junior College, which
prepared students for teacher certificates in
health and physical education field.
And you want to just continue this military thing,
or how much do you want? Well, I want to ask what
people you remember while you were a student here,
who you were closely associated with, or any
particular professors that made an impression on
you? There were three students that helped me more
than any others while I was a freshman. One of them
was O.P. Weiland, who was commander of my unit,
which was the band. You were in the band. I took
field artillery military training, but I lived
with the band because I played an instrument in it.
And O.P. Weiland was most helpful to all freshmen.
And I had another man who was Nat Turner, who was a
junior at the time. And he helped us with our
academic work primarily. If we needed help, we
went to him. And I had another one named Paul
Washburn. Incidentally, Nat Turner and Paul
Washburn both live in Houston now. And O.P.
Weiland retired as a lieutenant general from the
tactical air forces.
Washburn was particularly good because he
knew how to keep the freshmen pumped up when they
got discouraged and down in the dumps. He spent
quite a bit of time with freshmen who were
discouraged and wanted to go home. And he tried
also to keep the Stoutmore from hazing the
freshmen.
I remember especially Dr. I think they called him
Dr. D.B. Cofer. I'm not sure he was a doctor. But he
was in the English department. And he made his
class work very interesting. And he'd help us in
our study time. Any night we wanted to, we could
meet him. And he'd help us, not just with English,
but other courses too. And I had another professor
in the drawing area named Dudley Baker. I think
Dudley died a few years ago, but he was especially
helpful in advising us about student employment
and how to study and how to retain what we got in the
classroom and how to take notes and things of this
sort. And I never did forget what he taught me. And
then I had a Professor A. Mitchell, who was head of
the, I think they called it engineering drawing at
the time. And he took some kind of a special
interest in me, and I never did know why, except he
had a son in school at the same time I was, a
freshman. And we used to visit quite often, and I'd
go down to the house with this boy, and Professor A.
Mitchell got interested in me. And then I had one
other professor named Sugareff,
S-U-G-A-R-E-F-F, who was in my opinion, one of the
best history teachers I ever had. And so inspired
me with belief in America that I was one of those
demons on patriotism after I got through with his
courses in American history. And I've never
gotten over that, which I think helped me a great
deal in my work at A&M, really.
Now, there were some other teachers, but I can't
remember all their names at this time. For
instance, I had a chemistry teacher that was the
most complete teacher I believe I ever had. But he
was patient with all students. And if students
started lagging behind, he'd require them. He
didn't ask them, but he forced them to come in and
get extra help until he pulled himself up. And I
think I learned more about teaching from this one
professor. And I'm sorry I can't even think of his
name. This is awful. But he had all the good
qualities of a good teacher, in my opinion. And I
had some good math teachers, too. This one math
teacher that I can't think of his name was
excellent.
And that's the reason I ended up teaching
mathematics. And all the time I taught in public
school, I specialized in mathematics. Taught
some science classes, but preferred the
mathematics because I thought I was better
qualified. You said you were in the band then. Can
you compare the band then to, say, today? Yes. We
had about 65 pieces in the band and lived in old
Milner Hall. And the Cigna Corps lived in part of
the building. We had a real good bandmaster.
I thought pretty good, real good band, 65 piece
band. We practiced four nights a week for an hour.
And we participated in all ceremonies the cadet
corps had on Saturdays. They had a ceremony every
Saturday, except rainy day. And we participated
in all kind of parades and things where the whole
corps met out here in the afternoon. Did you go on
corps trips? Went on corps trips. We made a trip
every year. I was in the band to the Fort Worth Fat
Stock Show. And while we were there, we played
street concerts in the high schools and colleges
in that area and played out at the Stock Show
Pavilion every afternoon and every night. for a
week. And we made some trips to places like Baylor
College at Belton. I think they call it Mary Harden
Baylor now. And we went to places like Navasota and
played concerts. And then we played on the campus
during the early school year, fall and up till cold
weather. a Sunday afternoon concert out in front
of Speedle Hall every Sunday afternoon. And
incidentally, these programs were broadcast on
an old radio station here on the campus. I kind of
wish they'd go back to Sunday afternoon concerts.
I've always enjoyed those. Anything that really
stands out about your band experiences? Anything
that's humorous or interesting or sticks with
you?
Not especially. It made it a little bit tough
because this hour of practice we did at night, for
instance, was extra. And then we had to spend about
an hour and a half every Saturday morning in a
formal guard mount or battalion parade or
something. They had a different unit have a
ceremony every Sunday, and we always had to play.
And then we had to play these Sunday afternoon
concerts, and all these things were extra
time-consuming.
I had some difficulty, but I had some of the best
friends I ever had anywhere in the band, because we
were close together. We participated with each
other in everything. Even our intramurals were by
band. We didn't do like a lot of other units did. And
I remember that my little sister died when I was a
freshman, and I didn't even have that money to go
home. before I knew what was happening and they had
enough money for me to buy a railroad ticket. And
when I came back, I brought money from my father and
they wouldn't take it because they wanted to help
me this much. And I have never forgotten that, of
course. And I had real good help from people like
Paul Waxman and Nat Turner and O.P. Wallin. Now we
had some
Difficult is mainly because of the fact that some
of the military people didn't want us to spend this
extra time with the band. They wanted us to spend
all of our time with the military unit. And in fact,
one of the captains, who was my supervisor, told me
he wanted me to drop out of the band so I could devote
all my time to military tactics. And I didn't
especially like this, and I didn't. I stayed with
the band all four years. I'm glad. That's great.
And I don't know of anything else, really. Did you
work? You said you worked while you were a student.
Yes. Could you tell me what? I worked for the ground
maintenance department, digging ditches and
flower beds and mowing grass, 25 cents an hour. I
was going to ask you how much. Yes, 25 cents an hour.
And then I was fortunate enough to get a job waiting
tables in Speedy Hall when I was in the second
sophomore semester. And I believe that we got the
equivalent of our board, which was about $20, $25 a
month. And then in addition to that, I worked some
on Saturday for cotton seed and corn research out
at the experiment station. I did some work out
there for Dr. Mangelsdorf and the corn breeding
and also for Dave Killough and the Cotton
Breeding. Now who helped you? Did you go looking
for work or was there a place on campus where this
information was available then? There really
wasn't much place to look. The secretary of the
president handled whatever loans were made and
they didn't actually make a loan they just had you
sign a note and you paid it out twenty dollars,
thirty dollars a month. And this man was Mr. S.G.
Bailey And you could ask him for a job, but he really
didn't help anybody. He was Secretary of the
President, and he handled all these notes and
things, but he didn't have time. So you had to go on
your own. I got my jobs, I got all my jobs on my own by
going directly to the people that hired me. I see.
How did you know where to go then? Could you ask? I'd
ask, like over there in Band Hall, I asked Captain
Weiland, where can I go find a job? This Mr. Hensel
is in charge of the ground maintenance. He hired
all the lawn mowers and the ditch diggers and the
flower bed keepers and things of this sort. And he
showed me where his office was. So I went to see Mr.
Hensel. He's the man that hired me to do this work.
And at that time, incidentally, most of the
faculty lived in houses on the outskirts of the
campus. And the college kept up a lot of these
yards. And I don't know how they decided which
ones. I remember two or three of those professors'
houses that I kept yards for. Do you remember the
names of them? One of them was Ed Williams down here
on Joe Routt Boulevard, right back where old Guy
Hall was. I don't—Ruthers had her down. And then
there was a head of the rural education
department, Pop Hughes, W.L. Hughes, lived there
on the corner. right across the street from
Coliseum now, where the parking lot is. I mowed his
yard once a week. And Mr. Hensel paid me, of course.
I don't even know for sure where they did it. I went
to Sergeant King, who was the man in charge of the
student labor in Dining Hall. He was a sergeant in
the Army, and they paid him actually for this duty
with the permission from the Army. So I went to
Sergeant King and told him I needed a job working. I
knew this didn't take a lot of time when you studied
and everything, because right at mealtime,
that's when you had to eat. So he put me on the list,
and he and Sergeant Tyler, they were the two men
that helped get me a job on the dining hall staff.
And I worked over there until I graduated. You
worked three years there? Mm-hmm. I wonder how
many people have gone through A&M waiting tables.
I guess a whole lot. A whole bunch. Yeah, that's
right. And after you graduated from A&M, you went
on then to Hearn, then to teach math and coach. Now,
we were talking about your beginning of your Army
days, 1940. Was the 36th Division called active
duty in 1940? 36th Division was called active duty
on November 29, 1940. And that means since you held
a reserve commission in that unit, you were
activated. Yes. Now, actually, the 36th Division
was a Texas National Guard division. And we had a
National Guard company in my town, Temple. Old
Company D, the 143rd Infantry.
Soon after we mobilized, I was sent with about 25 or
30 other officers from our division to a
three-month school at Fort Benning, Georgia. And
when we returned from Georgia, we went to Camp
Bowie in Brownwood. where the 36th Division had
moved to. I stayed with them as a company
commander, and I was promoted while I was in
school. At the time you were mobilized, what was
your rank when you were mobilized? When we
mobilized, I was a first lieutenant, and I was
promoted to the rank of captain. You see, back at
that time, you couldn't be promoted unless there
was a vacancy. Now, I'd been a first lieutenant, I
think, six or seven years, which was longer than
normal, but they didn't have a vacancy. So my
captain got promoted to a majority. And while I was
in school, they made me a captain. When I came back,
I commanded a company, and they transferred me to
another company. But for some internal reasons in
the regiment, they had some problems out there.
But I stayed with them until January 1942. And in
January 1942, I was assigned to a cadre to form a new
division. and went back to Fort Benning, Georgia
for one month and was assigned to 82nd Infantry
Division,
which was commanded by General Bradley. And my
regimental commander was an A&M graduate, 1918
class. Can you think of his name? Colonel Easley.
Easley. Called him Spec
Easley. Incidentally, he became a Brigadier
General and was killed in Okinawa.
Then we left Fort Bend, Georgia in February and
moved to Camp Claiborne, Louisiana. And this was a
brand new camp. So we got in about 18,000 draftees
and started training them first week in March.
In August of that year, we were transferred. We
were made into a motorized division, and the 1st of
September made into the 1st Airborne Division, at
which time I was sent to Fort Leavenworth with five
other officers, especially to study the command
functions and to specialize in airborne tactics.
When I got out of school in November, I rejoined the
division which had moved from Claiborne,
Louisiana to Fort Bragg, North Carolina, so we
could get the airborne training and get ready to go
overseas. Now, this division is what now? 82nd.
It's still the 82nd. It came from the 82nd Infantry
to 82nd Airborne. Right. Okay. And you perhaps
remember the 82nd because it's where we started
York's outfit, World War I. I called it AA, or
All-American Division. And we trained at Fort
Braille, North Carolina and went to North Africa
in early May 1943. Landed at Casablanca on the 10th
of May. Made an amphibious landing there. No, we
made a, we went because the invasion had already
started there and we were trying to get to North
Africa in time to cut off the retreat of the
Germans. And we unloaded our ships and went to
Usta, which was about, I guess, 150 miles from
Casablanca. And we trained there until about when
we got to Usta, the Germans had escaped. They were
all gone. They had gotten into Sicily and Italy. So
they weren't in a particular point. So then they
sent us down at Usta to prepare for the Sicilian
invasion. And we were the assault division with
one British division on Sicily. a short time after
Fourth of July. We tried to make it on the Fourth of
July, but we didn't quite make it. And my
particular outfit didn't go to, essentially
because the Navy and the 45th Division shut down
about 25 of our planes on the incoming echelon, and
we lost about 575 paratroopers, and so they called
off our part because I belonged to a gladiator
regiment. And it's good because if we'd have gone,
we'd have probably had about 60% casualties. So we
went amphibiously. And we didn't know much about
what we were doing, but we went amphibiously. And
then we went from Sicily. Where did you land in
Sicily? We landed at Gela, G-E-L-A. And how long
were you in Sicily? We were in Sicily about a month
and a half or two months. And then we loaded up to go
to Italy. But we got some bad information from the
Italian Army, so we had to call off our parachute
operation. We were to load two parachute
regiments on the beach. We did send one parachute
battalion up to Avelina, and they got chopped to
all the pieces. But we finally sent We finally did
send two regiments, but they just jumped on the
beach. Not as a combat exercise, just a quick
method of getting there. We sent the rest of the
troops in by LCTs, landing craft. We landed on Red
Beach, just a little bit out of Salerno. Then we
transferred over to Maori and joined up with the
Rangers, Darby's Rangers. Not General Rogers,
but Colonel Darby. And we stayed with him until we
reached Naples. And then we made, we, the 82nd was
the occupying division for Naples until
Thanksgiving. We got to Naples on the 4th of
October of 1943.
And we got orders, very quick orders, to go to
Ireland to get ready for overlord operation in
Normandy in 1944. Back up just a minute and see if
there's a quick one here. Is there anything that
sticks out in the Italian campaign? Any things of
interest? Any contacts you may have had with Omar
Bradley or anybody that was involved? Patton?
Patton was in Sicily. He didn't go to Italy.
Anything that may have happened that might be of
interest or a little known fact? Yes, I remember,
well, I bumped in first to quite a large number of
ex-Aggies. Oh, I'm sure. With the various
divisions occupying Sicily and Italy. And I had
quite a number of contacts with John Clark, Mark
Clark, Fifth Army. And I did have some contacts
with John Patton. in the initial steps of this
invasion, first part of it. And I knew quite a
number of British officers, mainly because of the
fact that on all these airborne operations we
tried to coordinate so we wouldn't have any
conflict of priorities. And I knew quite a number
of them. Did you ever get a chance to meet
Montgomery? No, I never did meet Montgomery. I saw
General Bradley a good number of times. Your
impressions of Bradley? In my opinion, Bradley
was
sort of a school teacher type of guy, really. Had a
wonderful memory and was one of the most complete
tacticians I ever saw.
And then I found out later, up in the middle of the
war that he was not only a tactician, but he was
worldwide. He had all the political aspects of
this thing in his command. Just listen to some of
those guys like that. He was one of Eisenhower's
chief advisors, I found out, because I know two or
three times when up in the Ardennes, for instance,
Montgomery didn't want to do what General Ridgway
wanted to do. Ridgway was our corps commander, you
see, because Ridgway was one of the old West Point
boys that was hard as nails, but an expert on
tactics. And he commanded 82nd, and then later,
when he organized the 18th Airborne Corps, he
became the corps commander as a part of the 1st
Allied Airborne Army. and it was called Allied
Airborne because it had British and American.
Bradley was, he knew what he wanted to do, and he
thought it all out ahead of time, and he was fast. He
didn't have to fool around two or three days to make
a decision. He made it. He was sympathetic, and he
was patient, but if a guy was slumping off or
cowardly, he had no sympathy with him.
I thought he controlled Montgomery almost as well
as I did, really. He just had to say, we're not going
to do it that way, Monty, because it's not
tactically sound. We're going to do it this way.
And that's it. That's fine. No more discussion
about it at all. And I saw him do that up there at
Harzay in Belgium. Did you have any contact with
Patton that you can remember anything about him?
Not very much. I had to report to General Patton's
headquarters one time as a representative of the
division staff to find out what the details of the
attack were going to be, because General Ridgeway
had been told that he might be called on to
supplement this attack, even though we knew we
weren't going to make an airborne attack. We were
going to be used as ground troops. So I had to go up
there, and I spent the whole day talking to his
staff first, and then when he gave his combat
orders to his, I had to identify myself as it,
because they'd all talked to just any and
everybody, but he gave his combat orders for the
next day's operation while I was there, and then I
went back with this in my mind. I wasn't allowed to
write any of this down or take any map marks or
anything, but I had to memorize all this and take it
back to General Ridgway, and we had a code word that
If they wanted us to go, all they did is phone him
this one word, and then we went. But we didn't go.
Really, that's the only contact I had with him
directly. Now, I did hear him make three speeches,
one in Africa and two in England. I heard him make
that speech he got so much fame for on the fourth day
of June, which was printed in magazines all
around. They used some of the excerpts in this
Patton story on the movie. Just the one where he
left the Russians out or whatever it was? They were
still trying to cover up for him. Well, actually, I
think they didn't allow any newspaper people at
this meeting. That's what I was told anyhow. I know
when he got through his speech, he told us, now
there won't be any mention made by anybody in this
outfit that you've seen Patton or heard him. And
the Army was trying to keep him covered up. They
wanted to make it look like he'd gone back to the
United States. But he was a good commander. Good
field commander. Oh, yeah. You see, and one reason
I know that is because when we were down in Arden's
campaign, we had 101st Airborne Division cut off
completely at Bastogne. And General Ridgway was
commanded 82nd. and the 101st.
And he called on Patton to try to relieve the
pressure on the 101st, and he did. He did
eventually. Wheel 90 degrees or something.
Right. I know my father was in the 26th YB and made
that wheel. Now, you talked about going to Ireland
for Overlord. Could you tell us a little bit about
the preparations for Overlord? Yes. About three
weeks before we left Italy to go to Ireland, I was
made Division G-4 with supply logistics. And I had
to get busy and relearn some things I'd forgotten.
We had supplies in Italy, Sicily, and North
Africa. And we had carried enough parachutes for
three complete airborne operations. We had to get
all this stuff loaded. And when we took off, we had
to load out in the harbor because the harbor in
Naples was full of something ships, or battered
ships. We took off by loading out in the harbor and
were heckled and harassed considerably by the
German bombers until we got to O-Ran, I guess it
was. And we joined up with a British outfit, and I
think there were about 50 ships in the convoy that
went through the Straits of Gibraltar at night so
they wouldn't be able to see too much of what we were
doing. And we headed out for the middle of the
Atlantic and headed due north and ran into one
storm and one or two submarine pikes. So we had to
change course and skirt them. We had bummer escort
all the time, B-17. So it actually took us longer to
get there than we thought. We left, after we left,
sailed out of Naples Harbor on the morning of the
Monday before Thanksgiving. And we hooked up at
O-Ran for one day. And we got to North Ireland,
Belfast on the 10th of December. It was cold and
blue-bladed. We'd gone all over the dang Atlantic
But we didn't lose anybody. North Atlantic is
something, isn't it? We didn't lose a ship. We ran
into some submarine packs that were definitely
identified, but we didn't lose any ships, which is
good. We landed in North Island, really, because
there wasn't any space for us to land in England at
that time. We're about to North Island. We landed
at Belfast, and we were scattered from... We had
one regiment at Ballymena, one at Cookstown, our
division headquarters, a
small town about 20 miles out of Belfast. I can't
even think of the name of it now. We had our
parachute maintenance thing at a bomber base
about 40 miles out of Belfast, because we had to get
all those chutes off of those boats, ships. and
hang them up and dry them, because they'd been down
in the hole a good while. And we didn't know whether
they were damaged or not, so we had to dry them all
out. Of course, it was colder and blue blazes in the
North Island. We did as much training as we could,
but mainly we got the guys who were crippled, you
know, rejuvenated. We got replacements for the
guys that we lost down there. We got resupplied,
and we found out a lot of things we'd done in Africa,
some of the equipment was inappropriate, some of
it was not very efficient, so we had to remake a lot
of our equipment. We did most of that in Ireland.
For instance, could you give me an example? Yes, we
had a parachute company, a parachute maintenance
company.
that had some real good experts in it. They'd take
these pieces of equipment, like a guy would go up
with a radio pack on, and he'd jump with it on. And to
see how it got his, see if it fouled his rifle up, see
how hard it was to take off as he hit the ground, how
many of them were broken and all this. So they found
out that these pieces of equipment were either too
loose or too tight. Nearly all of them, they made it
right Patterson, but they just made them from blue
pressure. They didn't have them tested
completely. And we found on that operation down in
Italy, for instance, a lot of the guys were getting
their shroud lines fouled up with their rifles and
bayonets. And we always equipped each guy with at
least two hand grenades in their big pockets. And
sometimes they got fouled up with the equipment.
And it made it real dangerous. But we had two guys
that were killed this way. Pulled that pen out
prematurely.
So all these tests were made by officers,
incidentally, not by enlisted men. But the
officers would take this equipment up and jump
out. We had one major that jumped out as much as 10
times a day up there for weeks. And when they'd come
back, then we'd all meet. Since I was a G4, they
wouldn't do anything without my approval, and we
had to buy some pieces of canvas and what do you call
it? Glove fasteners, for instance. A lot of these
things we had were those little things where you'd
turn them, and you couldn't get them loose if they
got jammed. But these glove fasteners, you could
pull it, and you couldn't keep them from coming in
fast. We had some other adjustments made on our
parachute releases because some of the jams were
coming, you know, when a guy would get in on the
ground or in a tree, he'd hit that button and it
didn't release. Couldn't get out of the chute
except by cutting himself out with a gun.
Humpty-dumpty shroud lines to cut. So we didn't
want that to happen, and we also wanted to perfect
some of our pathfinder equipment so that we could
have a school with the Air Force people. they're
going to have to fly us and we want to get down where
we're supposed to go and we we tested all that
equipment and found a lot of it defective and
deficient when you got on the ground it wouldn't
light up the signals wouldn't operate well it's no
good if it's not going to operate so we we we
repacked a lot of our equipment and repatted a lot
of it and made different facets and unfasteners,
where you put zippers on a lot of it, where it could
be controlled easily. We made over 100,000 pieces
of equipment in North Ireland getting rid of this
invasion. So then in February, we went to England
because they had built some new controlments in
the Midlands, Greenham,
right out of Leicester. In fact, we had the
division headquarters in the city park Victoria
Park in Leicester. And then we had our field of
operation for the invasion down at Greenham
Commons, which was about 100 miles south. So we
started our training program by taking a
battalion at a time, battalion of paratroopers
and battalion gliders out with the Air Force
people, pathfinders and all. And we ran further
tests on our pathfinder equipment by going out
toward Norway and coming back in across the North
Sea. Coming in blind to see if we could actually
home in on these stations. Because we didn't do too
good a job homing down on that Sicilian and Italian
operation. And we wanted us, well we had to have
this Normandy operation good or it was going to be a
failure. So we did a lot of night practicing and We
assimilated as much as we could. We got all of our
plans and details ready. And when we got ready for
the invasion, we moved south with the glider
units, because they couldn't be tugged all the way
from north. The paratroopers operated from their
regular home bases. And we sent out two American
divisions and one British division, beginning
about 11 o'clock on D-1, and then our glider, our
gliders started out about midnight. I was in the
glider. We left Greenham Commons in the
particular glider that I was in. My glider was the
first one off. And on that first lift, we only took
52 gliders and brought in 126 the next afternoon at
5 o'clock. How many men to the gliders you were on?
We had 13, plus the pilot and co-pilot. 13 combat
people. Now we carried in some equipment too. We
carried in a few tank destroyers and a few heavier
guns that we could use for small artillery because
we had to have something to fight those tanks off
with. What were your thoughts going over it that if
the landing didn't come off, I wonder if you all
thought about you'd be stuck there? Oh, yes. If
that crossed your mind. Yes, we thought about that
quite a bit. Of course, some of us knew for months
where we were going and when. How many? Not many?
Not very many, no. So far as I know, the division
staff were the only people that knew prior to a week
before invasion time. Now this, when I say
division staff, the general and assistant
general and chief of staff and the one, two, three,
four. We were the only ones. What was your
objective? Our objective in Normandy operation,
you're talking about division objective now.
Well, where you were going, your glider was on the
way, and what was the particular destination?
Yes. Well, my regiment. And incidentally, don't
forget, I was a division staff officer at the time
we made the Normandy invasion. You were G4 still. I
was a G4. So I was on the general staff, and I had to be
with him as much as possible, or close enough to him
that he could contact me when he needed to know
something about the supply situation. The supply
meant ammunition and medicine, whatever. And we
had enough.
supplies packed up in parachute bundles to make a
resupply for three days. Now this was about a
hundred and ten times a day really. It all packaged
and loaded with proper colored chutes and
everything. And we had, and the quartermaster of
course was trained with us because they had to do
the kicking of the bundles out of the planes. But
our objective was to get back inside france and cut
off the retreat of the forces the german forces up
near the coast and to keep new units from coming
into the coast because the germans we knew had most
of their stuff further south and further to the
east because they thought we were coming into
breast apparently which is what we wanted yeah
yeah So we
were supposed to do this. And then in addition, we
had certain functions about the Dove River and the
River. And there's a railroad that ran by there,
too. It had some heavy artillery, some of the big
long range artillery things. And we didn't want
them to come down from the coast and hit us too hard.
So we severed the railroad line, really. What time
did you land? Well, our paratroopers started
landing at 12 o'clock and the gliders landed at 4.
It took us about 30 minutes to make full landing.
But the gliders didn't come in on top of the
paratroopers? Y'all had a separate objective?
Yeah.
The major portion of the gliders came in at 5
o'clock that afternoon. They caught holy heck.
Yeah, because of daylight. We anticipated a loss
of 25% of our initial force. This is what we
estimated before we started. We didn't lose quite
that many. We lost a whole lot of men, but we didn't
lose 25% the first day. Actually, we lost about
10%. How many gliders came down safely? Did most
land safely on the first lift? Yes. On that first
lift out of 52 gliders, we only lost six. And they
were lost to hazards, trees? They were shot down,
shot down mostly. Just met everybody in them. Now
we lost two on the ground. They hit something. They
hit trees or buildings or something. Now some of
the men got out of them. Yeah. Now, these fields
were, don't forget, were surrounded by Germans.
We just landed out in the middle of these Germans.
Did that bring on immediate fire? Oh, yeah. I found
one glider up there that never got in. It was killed
as he came out of the door. Stacked up as they were.
You could see what happened to him. The glider
wasn't injured, but as these guys came out, they
were hit. Well, we lost two guys on the glider out
there. They weren't killed, but they were
severely wounded. We left him in the ditch, went
back later and picked him up with a medical crew.
But we captured St. Mary Glees, which was the hub of
all the transportation there. There was an
airdrop right on that town. Yes. All these gliders
that went in with us landed, I'd say, I don't think
any of them landed further than five miles from St.
Mary Glees. And one parachute battalion landed
within a mile of St. Mary Glees. And some of them
landed right on top of the town, fell right into the
city. But we did. We got all our objectives. We
blocked two bridges to keep the German tanks from
coming. We cut the railroad to keep those heavy
guns from coming down. We blocked three highways
to keep armored and motorized outfits coming in.
And we hooked up with the 4th Division, the 82nd, I
don't know what the 101st did, but we hooked up with
the 4th Division about daylight on D plus 1. And
incidentally, I was wounded at 7 o'clock on D plus
1.